Title: Bynack More and Cairn Gorm
Date: 2010-08-15 22:37:28
Modified: 2010-08-15 22:37:28
Category: The Cairngorms
Tags: munro
Slug: bynack-more-and-cairn-gorm
Author: Nick Bramhall

**Distance: 28.8 km  
 Ascent: 1553 m  
 Time: 7hrs 37mins  
 Munros: Bynack More (1090m), Cairn Gorm (1245m)  
 Weather: Hot sunshine, light breeze  
 Route: [View on OS Maps](https://www.invertedworld.co.uk/hillwalking/hillwalk/334)**

After what seemed like interminable weekends of rain, wind and general
unpleasantness, yesterday’s weather was warm and sunny and so in the
evening I quickly made plans to head into the mountains today. The
weather forecast was particularly promising for the eastern side of the
country so I checked out what I had still to climb amongst the Munros of
the Cairngorms (quite a few in fact) and then checked out a couple of
possible routes. With long summer days still around I decided that a
route taking in both the out-of-the-way Bynack More, and the eponymous
Cairn Gorm would work out well and saw that there was a track that cut
down from the ski centre towards the Ryvoan pass allowing me to complete
a satisying loop of the two. Soon after my bag was packed and I was
ready for an early departure.

Sunday morning lived up to its bright promise, with unbroken blue skies
above me as I drove out of Aberdeen. There was some cloud around as I
passed over to Strathdon and from the viewing point past Corgarff I
could see that the higher Cairngorms were holding on to a cap of clouds.
No matter though as the forecast had promised improved conditions into
the afternoon.

[![West towards the Cairngorms](https://live.staticflickr.com/4100/4921023580_3d5a4b7e28_b.jpg "West towards the Cairngorms")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4921023580/)

[![As Still Skies Of Storms Unfold](https://live.staticflickr.com/4123/4921035410_5e71321a63_b.jpg "As Still Skies Of Storms Unfold")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4921035410/)

I drove along the quiet backroad through Nethy Bridge, along to
Coylumbridge and then hit the tourist traffic on the main road up to the
Cairn Gorm ski centre. Small sailing boats were already plying the still
blue waters of Loch Morlich as I passed by it before the road climbed up
to the lower ski centre car park. There were a few people up here
admiring the view back down over Glen More, but no-one else was booting
up for a walk.

[![Loch Morlich in Glen More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4098/4920491661_a62b7f42ef_b.jpg "Loch Morlich in Glen More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4920491661/)

[![The hills above Glen More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4095/4921097542_79df0b7c2c_b.jpg "The hills above Glen More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4921097542/)

Undeterred I made my preparations, only to discover that both sets of
batteries for my GPS were virtually dead. It wasn’t that I was worried
about navigation. I had a map and compass. I was worried about the loss
of my track and the associated statistics (how sad!). Luckily, my phone
came to the rescue and I soon had [My
Tracks](http://mytracks.appspot.com/) up and running and recording a GPS
track for me (no data loss, hurrah!).

[![Looking over Glen More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4097/4898398722_da1ac7f948_b.jpg "Looking over Glen More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4898398722/)

From the ski centre car park I dropped down to the Allt Na Ciste,
crossing it and turning to follow the track on its east bank. SOon after
this a track forked off to the right and I followed this as it wound its
way across gently rolling, heather clad land across to Lochan na Beinne
which was beautifully still in the morning air. At just after 10am it
was already a very hot day.

[![Still Life](https://live.staticflickr.com/4080/4897993411_c613a15f5c_b.jpg "Still Life")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4897993411/)

From the Lochan the track followed a boggy course below the lower slopes
of Stac na h-lolaire. At some point I deviated away from the line of the
track marked on the OS Map, though I was still on a clear route. This
kept me above the wooded gully which I imagine would have been very
boggy. Unfortunately the track I was on finally bent around to the west
but petered out in a further gully where a reedy burn soaked both my
feet. I continued along it as it went into the deeper section of woods
and although I must have crossed it at some point, missed the track.
Instead I broke through waist-high ferns to reach another gully which
had been largely cleared of trees. Although it was steep I was able to
pick my way carefully down it. In the shelter of the gully though it was
hot, damp and very fly-infested.

I was glad, some time later, to reach the floor of Glen More where I
immediately hit the excellent path that comes up from Glenmore Lodge.
The going was much easier now and I soon arrived at the branch down to
An Lochan Uaine (the green lochan) which I headed down to. No pictures
can do justice to the incredible beauty of this piece of water.

[![The Green Lochan](https://live.staticflickr.com/4120/4905167787_5ddf459b8e_b.jpg "The Green Lochan")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4905167787/)

[![An Lochan Uaine](https://live.staticflickr.com/4100/4898639574_8d917598e2_b.jpg "An Lochan Uaine")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4898639574/)

In the shelter of both hills and thinning pine trees it more than lives
up to its name, its glass-like surface mirroring the scenery. I sat by
the water munching on a cereal bar and enjoying the tranquility of this
idyllic spot. A few other walkers came down to explore its banks and so
I eventually moved on, returning back to the track which now heads
towards the Ryvoan Bothy.

[![Joining the Lairig an Laoigh track](https://live.staticflickr.com/4095/4906984470_11a1abf80a_b.jpg "Joining the Lairig an Laoigh track")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4906984470/)

[![Summer in the Highlands](https://live.staticflickr.com/4123/4906406081_8315bd597e_b.jpg "Summer in the Highlands")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4906406081/)

Shortly before the bothy a Scottish RIghts of Way Society sign points a
fork in the road. I took the right fork to Braemar as this path
eventually leads to the Lairig an Laoigh, one of the passes through the
high Cairngorms. The track is of excellent quality and in short order I
was at the wide opening of Strath Nethy, crossing the River Nethy by a
good quality footbridge.

[![The River Nethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4082/4906408921_5e84011b1d_b.jpg "The River Nethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4906408921/)

[![IMG_9603.CR2](https://live.staticflickr.com/4141/4908523288_7fa9860d2b_b.jpg "IMG_9603.CR2")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4908523288/)

On the far side the track branched off to the left to climb the long,
gentle shoulder of An Lurg, a bump in the high, laregely featureless
plataue whose high point is the summit of Bynack More.

[![Strath Nethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4101/4906411037_ee0d3acc12_b.jpg "Strath Nethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4906411037/)

[![The distant tors on Ben Avon](https://live.staticflickr.com/4116/4908535358_66bf8c3093_b.jpg "The distant tors on Ben Avon")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4908535358/)

[![The Braes of Abernethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4119/4907939597_5327c6d1ab_b.jpg "The Braes of Abernethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4907939597/)

At around 780m the main Lairig track is left as it turns to the east to
contour around Bynack More and the Munro baggers track continues almost
due south, passing over the 818m spot height from which you get your
first true look at Bynack More sitting to the left of its smaller
neighbour, Bynack Beg.

[![Bynack More and Bynack Beg](https://live.staticflickr.com/4142/4907943947_9076562890_b.jpg "Bynack More and Bynack Beg")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4907943947/)

[![Bynack More and Bynack Beg](https://live.staticflickr.com/4120/4922247261_4d64d98f87_b.jpg "Bynack More and Bynack Beg")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922247261/)

The path heads up the north ridge, very steeply at first but then
flattening off slightly as it turns to the west side of the ridge to
avoid the rocky crest. Rather than follow the track I stuck to the crest
as much as posible, enjoying scrambling up the grippy granite.

[![Approaching the summit](https://live.staticflickr.com/4115/4922253717_365838beef_b.jpg "Approaching the summit")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922253717/)

[![The track up Bynack More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4118/4922259281_c0c0b3a2d9_b.jpg "The track up Bynack More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922259281/)

I overtook a couple of folk toiling up the path and soon after that
emerged amongst the summit boulders, the cairn some way to my south.
Beyond it the sharp profile of Coire Sputan Dearg on Ben Macdui and the
tors on Beinn Mheadhoin had come into view.

[![The north ridge of Bynack More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4122/4922265653_ae7445ce25_b.jpg "The north ridge of Bynack More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922265653/)

[![The Cairngorms from Bynack More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4097/4922887908_1391ebaa5b_b.jpg "The Cairngorms from Bynack More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922887908/)

[![Looking north from Bynack More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4137/4922297643_fa307c814f_b.jpg "Looking north from Bynack More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922297643/)

I passed by way of the large summit cairn, taking in the fantastic
panorama that had opened up all around me. To the west Cairn Gorm had
blown off its early cloud and now stoody dominating the immedaite scene.
To the south the pass of the Lairig an Laigh could be seen, the various
pools and lochans in it catching the high sun. To the south and east the
long sloping sides of Beinn a’ Bhiuird and Ben Avon with its Tors showed
off their bulk.

[![Ben Avon and Beinn a' Bhuird beyond the Barns](https://live.staticflickr.com/4075/4923341534_3ddf05c471_b.jpg "Ben Avon and Beinn a' Bhuird beyond the Barns")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4923341534/)

[![Bynack More summit cairn](https://live.staticflickr.com/4136/4923319206_e4b1b0c897_b.jpg "Bynack More summit cairn")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4923319206/)

[![The Cairngorms](https://live.staticflickr.com/4093/4922729481_b5a5e7b444_b.jpg "The Cairngorms")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922729481/)

I sat up here for almost half an hour, munching on a sandwich or two and
taking in the views under sunny skies. There was only the lightest of
breezes and so a few insects had gathered up near the cairn which were
somewhat irksome. I had a chat with chap who had been out walking and
camping in the hills for almost a week. He had come through rain and
high winds but had enjoyed the weekend sunshine and was now prepared for
one last night, camped up on Bynack More, before heading back to
civilisation.

[![Ben Rinnes from Bynack More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4141/4923316060_663efcc0d6_b.jpg "Ben Rinnes from Bynack More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4923316060/)

After my lunch I dropped south from the summit to continue my loop.
First of all my route took me down by the Barns of Bynack, a set of
granite tors which sit just south of the summit.

[![The Barns of Bynack](https://live.staticflickr.com/4123/4923342756_9eaf84e0e6_b.jpg "The Barns of Bynack")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4923342756/)

[![The Barns of Bynack](https://live.staticflickr.com/4081/4922758321_45e49c1b9d_b.jpg "The Barns of Bynack")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4922758321/)

After the Barns I dropped down and made my way slightly west to climb
the unremarkable A’ Choinneach. This 1017m high bump is a Munro top but
the legs hardly feel it and I only stopped briefly at the cairn to
admire the view back to Bynack More before continuing on.

[![Summit of A' Choinneach](https://live.staticflickr.com/4134/4932886263_d5aa3c2534_b.jpg "Summit of A' Choinneach")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932886263/)

[![Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4114/4932889069_698936923a_b.jpg "Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932889069/)

I was drawn by knowledge that the next view was one I had long sought:
that of Loch Avon, the body of water truly at the heart of the
Cairngorms. It’s dark green surface shimmers below the steep cliffs that
make up Ben Macdui, Derry Cairngorm, Cairn Gorm and Beinn Mheadhoin, all
Munros. I detoured out to a slight promontory whcih gave a fantastic
view down the loch. Here I paused for another twenty or so minutes just
enjoying the splendour of this wild and remote spot. I was already
mentally noting a number of potential campsites that I’d like to use on
a trip through these mountains.

[![Loch Avon](https://live.staticflickr.com/4096/4932904323_1390e74c05_b.jpg "Loch Avon")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932904323/)

[![The Lairig an Laiogh](https://live.staticflickr.com/4074/4933495176_4e49fffe0f_b.jpg "The Lairig an Laiogh")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933495176/)

[![Nick above Loch Avon](https://live.staticflickr.com/4138/4933513360_f858acf034_b.jpg "Nick above Loch Avon")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933513360/)

After my break I rejoined the main track which winds down off A’
Choinneach, past several small pools with Cairn Gorm behind them, and
down to the Saddle which marks the head of Strath Nethy. In poor weather
this would provide a good escape route at this point but with the sun
beating down I was ready to climb up to my second Munro of the day,
Cairn Gorm.

[![Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4115/4932923051_bfe954d687_b.jpg "Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932923051/)

[![Loch Avon below the Saddle](https://live.staticflickr.com/4095/4933526192_e750bb3eaa_b.jpg "Loch Avon below the Saddle")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933526192/)

[![The cliffs of Cnap Coire na Spreidhe](https://live.staticflickr.com/4094/4933523290_48ae1deee7_b.jpg "The cliffs of Cnap Coire na Spreidhe")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933523290/)

A good track climbs up the right of the high cliffs which guard the
summit of Cairn Gorm. It takes you up alongside Strath Nethy giving good
views back to Bynack More and the eastern hills.

[![Beinn Mheadhoin above Loch Avon](https://live.staticflickr.com/4098/4933529944_f4099acc95_b.jpg "Beinn Mheadhoin above Loch Avon")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933529944/)

[![Looking down Strath Nethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4101/4933534394_8752358770_b.jpg "Looking down Strath Nethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933534394/)

[![Ben Avon beyond the head of Strath Nethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4093/4933544492_f1b45ee94c_b.jpg "Ben Avon beyond the head of Strath Nethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933544492/)

It isn’t the most direct of paths but does take you up a moderate slope
that soon gains height. Eventually the path turned westward, following
the course of a burn that came down from some of the last lingering snow
patches of the year. Here I found a determined skier, repeatedly sliding
down the short runs of hardened snow. They seemed to be enjoying
themselves.

[![The allt below Cnap Coire na Spreidhe](https://live.staticflickr.com/4076/4932967329_0e223e397a_b.jpg "The allt below Cnap Coire na Spreidhe")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932967329/)

[![Last skier in Scotland?](https://live.staticflickr.com/4074/4932970115_2af0ba2f40_b.jpg "Last skier in Scotland?")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932970115/)

[![Bynack More from Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4121/4933566448_9ca584211d_b.jpg "Bynack More from Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933566448/)

Meanwhile, the path was now heading for the Ptarmigan so I turned off it
and struck up the final slopes, emerging on the Cairn Gorm plateau just
a few hundred metres away from the summit and the weather station.

[![Cairn Gorm summit](https://live.staticflickr.com/4074/4933572018_3dae734f74_b.jpg "Cairn Gorm summit")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933572018/)

[![Looking down the Avon](https://live.staticflickr.com/4123/4932980569_68561f3cf6_b.jpg "Looking down the Avon")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932980569/)

I made my way over to the weather station and then dropped slightly down
the bouldery slope to get the view south to hidden Loch Etchachan and
Ben Macdui. In the afternoon light it was a wonderful view.

[![Loch Etchachan from Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4139/4933579920_3a6a06fa1d_b.jpg "Loch Etchachan from Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933579920/)

[![Loch Etchachan and Derry Cairngorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4100/4933589098_2a93fc0c73_b.jpg "Loch Etchachan and Derry Cairngorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933589098/)

[![Beinn Mheadhoin from Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4096/4932992603_87b6cbc23e_b.jpg "Beinn Mheadhoin from Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4932992603/)

After a pause here I returned to the summit to tag the cairn and check
out the view west across Loch Morlich and beyond to where the Moray
Firth would lie hidden in haze. It was then an easy walk on the well
made track north along the plateau, passing the Maquis Well and soon
encountering the ski equipment which make this mountain synonymous with
Scottish winter sports.

[![Summit of Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4143/4933019797_170d689342_b.jpg "Summit of Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933019797/)

[![The view west from Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4102/4933608672_b744f2eecf_b.jpg "The view west from Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933608672/)

I left the built up area and kept away from the Ptarmigan (where the
funicular railway terminates), taking an offtrack route across the
rolling plateau until I dropped down into Coire na Ciste. This steep
gulley would lead me directly to the car park.

[![The path off Cairn Gorm](https://live.staticflickr.com/4075/4933026219_8029726a02_b.jpg "The path off Cairn Gorm")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933026219/)

[![Loch Morlich](https://live.staticflickr.com/4117/4933028687_aa9d72a491_b.jpg "Loch Morlich")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933028687/)

[![Dropping back to Glen More](https://live.staticflickr.com/4138/4933031131_a6153020e5_b.jpg "Dropping back to Glen More")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933031131/)

At first it was steep, unsteady ground but after some uncertainty I
picked up a track lower down that soon became clear and well
constructed. It skirted round and final outlier of Cairn Gorm and then
descended to the car park and my car.

[![Looking back up the Coire na Ciste](https://live.staticflickr.com/4137/4933036785_6e982f4d13_b.jpg "Looking back up the Coire na Ciste")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933036785/)

[![The track down Coire na Ciste](https://live.staticflickr.com/4079/4933034059_966c571a2d_b.jpg "The track down Coire na Ciste")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933034059/)

[![Return to the ski centre car park](https://live.staticflickr.com/4099/4933038615_95995f029f_b.jpg "Return to the ski centre car park")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933038615/)

After a quick change out of my boots and a phone call home I was heading
back, stopping briefly by Loch Morlich to get the view of the mountains
that had been cloud covered earlier in the day. I stopped once more
above Abernethy to get a final photo and then made the long drive back
across the mountains to Aberdeen.

[![Loch Morlich and the Cairngorms](https://live.staticflickr.com/4073/4933753481_eb6cf57214_b.jpg "Loch Morlich and the Cairngorms")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933753481/)

[![Thistles and Abernethy](https://live.staticflickr.com/4074/4933758877_ae779300fc_b.jpg "Thistles and Abernethy")](https://www.flickr.com/photos/black_friction/4933758877/)

